Updates to Lesson 10, Lesson 10 Checkpoint (#34)
ReDI-School/nrw-html-and-css-2021-spring: lesson10/index.md

---

> title: Lesson 11 - CSS Icons Links and Lists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Lesson 11 - CSS Links and Lists
```

nav_order: 11
---

> # CSS Icons Links and Lists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# CSS Links and Lists
```

## Class Agenda

> 1. CSS Link styling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. CSS Link Styling
```

> 2. CSS List sytling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. CSS List Styling
```

## 1. CSS Link Sytling

> This section teaches students how to deciorate various links found on the website. This includes but not Menu links, External links etc. The section covers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section teaches students how to decorate various links via CSS. This includes menu links, external links  and others. In particular, the section covers the following points:
```

> - Explain the various states that a link can exist in (e.g Visited, Hover, Focus, Active)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What are the various states that a link can have (e.g Visited, Hover, Focus, Active)?
```

- How do we style the link in various states using CSS Pseudo-classes?

> - Explain that browsers apply `default styles` on links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What are the `default styles`, which are applied by the browser to links?
```

- How do we add background color to links?

> - How do we convert links to buttons, and style them with CSS?

Reviewer: What do you mean by this `how do we convert links to buttons`? Can you give me an example

Reviewer: @vickjoeobi , I am still not sure what is meant by this point even after you added a partial sentence `example converting links of Navigation to button like.` (which btw is probably missing the "For")

Author: Updated, can you confirm it is now cool.

ETA: 50min

## 2. CSS Lists Styling

> This section is all about Lists. Either creating lisits using CSS or designing the already created HTML list. This is important because in the process of designing webpages, lists are always used. This section covers:

Reviewer: The section is not all about lists because there is a lot more about lists which has been covered during the HTML Lists class. Moreover, I avoid strong definitive adjectives such as `always used`. Therefore, here is my suggestion:

```suggestion
An important aspect of a webpage design is styling lists. Therefore this section teaches students how to create lists using CSS. Moreover, students learn how to design an already created HTML list. In particular the section covers the following points:
```

> - Recap of HTML list

Reviewer: let's add a hyperlink here

```suggestion
- Recap of [HTML Lists](https://redi-school.github.io/nrw-html-and-css-2021-spring/lesson5/#2-lists)
```

> - Different list Item makers such as Circle, square, upper-roman etc. (using `list-style-type`) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using the `list-style-type` css rule to apply different list item makers such as circle, square, upper-roman, etc.
```

- Customizing list item makers with image (using `list-style-image`)

> - Changing list styles such as position of list item Marker, Changing the default style etc.
> - Styling the list colours.

Reviewer: I would include these in one point
```suggestion
- Changing list styles such as positioning of the list item marker, changing the default style, using different list colours and others.
```

ETA: 45mins

# Exercise Description

> Exercises should be done along each sections and making the students repeat some process and adding their own styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exercises should be done along each section and should help students add their own styles.
```

This lesson can add new content to the CV website since all these are expected to be consumed within it.

Therefore, Checkpoint 10 will be used in the beginning of lesson 11.

# Glossary & Terminology

- 

---

# Homework

1. Create html links and decorate them based on all the link states. 

> 2. Define some list (Ordered and unordered), and design it with colors. 

Reviewer: Here is my idea for point 2. During lecture 5 we added the following homework point => https://redi-school.github.io/nrw-html-and-css-2021-spring/lesson5/homework/ShoppingList.png

I would suggest that we use the same shopping list content but this time we style the tags in some special way. We then make a screenshot of the final product and ask students to write the css for these links. We can also give them a link to the existing HTML -> https://github.com/ReDI-School/nrw-html-and-css-2021-spring/blob/master/lesson5/homework/ShoppingListExample.html

Author: @angelsvirkov this seems a little confusing to me.

Reviewer: This is how I am going to explain it to students, for example:
- For your homework, please look at this screenshot of a shopping list and write the corresponding HTML and CSS to create a page that contains the list as displayed in the screenshot. 

Does this help?

Author: Sure it helps. Will add this immediately.

Reviewer: @vickjoeobi , but adding one sentence is not enough. How do we expect students to do this task when there is no screenshot?

Author: should I add the link? https://redi-school.github.io/nrw-html-and-css-2021-spring/lesson5/homework/ShoppingList.png

Reviewer: No because that is the screenshot for lesson5 homework. It has no styles. If we would like to include this homework point then we need to prepare an example and take a screenshot of it. BUt I think it is taking too much time to discuss so I would be fine to not add this as a homework point

# Resources

> - [CSS Lists](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_list.asp)
> - [CSS Lists](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Lists_and_Counters)
> - [CSS Links](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_link.asp)
> - [CSS Links](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Styling_text/Styling_links)

Reviewer: We try to add resources in an alphabetical order. I would also suggest that we we do not duplicate hypertext because it will look like a bug on the final website.
```suggestion
- [CSS Links - MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Styling_text/Styling_links)
- [CSS Links - W3S](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_link.asp)
- [CSS Lists - MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Lists_and_Counters)
- [CSS Lists - W3S](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_list.asp)
```
